Lab 1: It's boxes all the way down 
==================================

Group Members
-------------
Michael Droessler <droessmj@uwec.edu>

Answers
-------
1. I have Ubuntu installed already for Ruby on Rails dev on my personal laptop, and for the BSD version I just went with FreeBSD. I didn't 
choose it for any particular reason at all, other than the fact that you mentioned some major companies that currently use it.
	1. I've been using Ubuntu on and off for about 3 years, and I understand the background behind making a very user friendly distribution. 
	Generally, I'm pretty comfortable using the package manager within Ubuntu.
	For FreeBSD, I know nothing at all. It took me 3 attempts to just install the image and create a user, and to then log in with that 
	user.  Up to this point, it seems to be a pretty straightforward Unix like OS. I guess I don't have enough experience with various
	Unix OS's to love or hate any specific features of a given OS.  Personally, I enjoy Ubuntu because it has Unix under the hood, but
	it still is familar and comfortable.
	
	2. Origin of Ubuntu - Ubuntu is built on Debian linux. It is a widely used form of linux running on everything from PCs, 
	phones, TVs, and servers.  Reportedly, it is the most widespread and used desktop variant of linux.  Development of Ubuntu is led by
	Canonical, however there is still the general open source theory of open development.  

	   Origin of FreeBSD - FreeBSD is a child of AT&T's Unix. Development started in 1993 as a fork of 386BSD. Copyrighted source code
	was used in the original OS; therefore FreeBSD 2.0 was released in January of 1995 with freely distributable source.Today, FreeBSD
	is the most used BSD derivative (other than OS X). Development of FreeBSD is maintained by a group of around 300 people with write
	access to the Subversion repository. Nearly every 4 months there is a new realse from the "-STABLE" branch.

	3. Differences with Ubuntu - To increase security, there is a sudo tool which is used to allow the root account to perform 
	tasks while still remaining locked down. Ubuntu also has a specific software center which replaces many other utilities.
	   
	   Differences with FreeBSD - Most software that runs on a Linux can run on FreeBSD due to a compatibility layer built-in to 
	the OS. This supposedly allows applications to run on FreeBSD within no performance difference from there original Linux distro.
	FreeBSD also has a handful of unique tools that help to increase reliabilty of storage. These include soft updates and snapshots.

	4. I've tried to use Ubuntu as my everyday OS a few times, but there are always games or features that Windows/OS X have that bring 
	me back, namely Netflix and League of Legends. While it is possible to get these working on Ubuntu, at the end of the day it is easier
	to keep a partition with Windows. This gradually turns into booting into Windows by default and Ubuntu for dev specific tasks. For 
	the FreeBSD, I understand that it is good for servers. So I would suppose that I could use it to host my own server. I'm not sure what 
	else I even could use it for.

2. 
5-System and service management (init system, boot loader, kernel modules, etc.)

	1.Ubuntu - Comes with a bunch of graphical programs, but not everything under the hood. No git, vim out of the box.
	  FreeBSD - No GUI, only CLI. No git out of the box. No emacs, vim, nano out of the box, but it does have 'vi'. Not sure how to install packages. Hope is
	fading fast. 'id' instead of 'whoami'
	
	2.Ubuntu - Ubuntu has a built in package manager and software center. For most installations, it's as simple as 'sudo apt-get install'. 
	The software center allows you to browse available applications, and you can read and write reviews of specific products.
	  FreeBSD - Ports and applications are how FreeBSD handles software.  There is a repository of over 24,000 applications, and these applications
    are installed from source. Each one has a makefile that grabs source code, patches, and then compiles. Because of this, the user
	is able to install a customized program if they desire. 
	
	3.Ubuntu - I could not find anything specific about Ubuntu. I know that it is very good with WiFi right out of the box, and 
	it has both graphical and command line tools for network configuration.
	  FreeBSD - FreeBSD has CARP, which allows multiple nodes to share a set of IP addresses. This allows other nodes to handle 
	requests if a single node were to go down.  FreeBSD has a TCP/IP stack that is based on 4.2BSD's implementation. This supposedly
	contributed to the widespread adoption of these protocols.
	
	4.Ubuntu - Releases in April and October. Every two years (4 releases) a long-term stable version is released and supported until the next LTS.
	FreeBSD - Releases every 4-6 months. There is a current branch, which is brand new, not completely tested code, and a stable
	branch. That is tested hard before release.
	
	5.Ubuntu - Ubuntu used a grub boot loader. Ubuntu uses the upstart init system.
	  FreeBSD - FreeBSD has a multiple stage boot loader that is part of the distrobution. FreeBSD uses a system controlled by teh rc utility 
	to start services. 
	
	6.Ubuntu - http://www.ubuntu.com/support - Forum, documentation, professional services. Nearly anything you would need to know 
	is available on these pages.
	  FreeBSD - www.freebsd.org - FAQ, Handbook, Man pages, newsgroups - comp.unix.bsd.freebsd.announce, 
	  also - http://www.freebsd.org/doc/en_US.ISO8859-1/articles/new-users/index.html
	
	7.Ubuntu - Large and everywhere. You can get support from the askUbuntu wiki, irc channels, and linux forums everywhere. Ubuntu is  a
	fairly popular distro, so specific help can be found in a wide variety of places.
	  FreeBSD -So far for FreeBSD, most of the help I've had to find so far has come freebsd.org documentation. I've found much fewer forums
	and unofficial wikis. I have not tried out IRC yet. 
	
	-As always, StackOverflow for both questions 6 and 7, and for both Ubuntu and FreeBSD.
	
3. So the kernel is the base source code that an OS is built upon. The kernel is the most basic program that handles I/O and feeds
that to the CPU. Most forms of Linux use the same Linux kernel, albeit with slight modificationsfrom one OS to another. An OS 
would be Linux or BSD, and distributions of linux would be Ubuntu, Debian, Fedora, etc. Each distribution has different applications
and programs baked into the operating system. Additionally, not all features, settings, and even abilities are consistent across different
distributions. Distributions may be classified by their relation and closeness to another distro, but development processes, and a 
host of other things can be immensely different.

4. I think multiple Unix operating systems is good to an extent. This allows features to be developed and put to the test in different
environments before they are ported or recreated for another OS. However, if there is such a thing as "too many", it would be because
developers may get spread to thin amongst the different OS's. If OS "A" has one or two killer features, but overall is not as good as "B", do you
implement these features in "B"? Or, do you try to bring "A" up to the standard of "B". People tend to be fanboys, and that may lead
to the continued development for quite a few variants of linux and BSD. However, I don't know if there truly is any fundemental downside to
having a wide variety of Unix-like operating systems to choose from. As a user, it's great. But like I mentioned, I think the problems
are more on the end of those developing for these systems.

Comments
--------
Apparently Cntrl Alt Delete restarts a FreeBSD machine?
