Lab 3: Service with a Smile
===========================

Group Members
-------------
Michael Droessler <droessmj@uwec.edu>

Answers
-------
1. One issue I ran into that caused me a big headache was modifying my 
rc.local file to not have an exit 0 in the last line. This resulted in 
me being unable to login with my user account. I actually had to login 
as a guest, gain terminal access, login as my user, and then sudo an 
edit to the file.


2. systemd is a system managment deamon. That means that during startup, it is the first process to be
executed. According to Wikipedia, the name comes from the Unix convention of making deamons easier to 
recognize by appending 'd' to the name of the file. systemd is the first process to be started during startup, 
and it is the last process to be killed during shutdown.  This is because systemd is a parent deamon to 
manage other deamons. 

systemd is supposed to be better than init due to improvements in parallel processessing and reduction
of overhead for the shell. Additionally, systemd tracks its processes using 'cgroups' rather than PIDs. This allows
systemd to track EVERY child, whether it has forked or double forked. In theory, this results in a smaller
amount of orphaned processes making their way back to PID 1 with their tail between their legs.

In the article 'Why systemd is winning hte init wars and other things aren't', the author claims that systemd is becoming the go to ideal due to
both its compliation of features and the efforts of its developers to push it to the public.  The author continues
to go on with claims that systemd is not novel at all. Rather, it implemented other ideas in an effective
manner that solves real world problems.  In this manner, systemd is winning the war against SysV init.

Appearantly, systemd is broken by design.  systemd is more complex than any other init system, which makes it 
a risk for running as PID 1. If PID 1 crashes, the whole system goes down. That alone makes users wary of a 
complex init system. Also, the complexity of systemd makes it necessary to reboot to push upgrades. Again, it is 
mentioned that none of the things systemd does right are new. However, systemd is the first init system to
put it all together in an attractive implemenation.

systemd does not do things the Unix way. If everything is handled in one process, PID 1, then it is handling
more than one thing with one program. Simplifying systemd so that absolute core runs on PID 1 would open up 
the system to upgrades without restarts, and it would greatly reduce the possibility of the system crashing. As of now,
systemd does not have a clearly defined scope.

The traditional SysV init has a serious drawback in that it starts tasks serially. This can lead to a much longer
boot than the new systemd. However, in the Unix philosphy, SysV init is a much more simple and directed 
program than is systemd.


One of my biggest takeaways here is the systemd is much better suited for desktop users than server users.
If a reboot is required to upgrade, no administrator is going to be happy. Additionally, one of the biggest
advantages of init is the ability to boot faster. However, like I just mentioned, servers don't want to reboot.
However, systemd does increase inter-process communication with the use of 'Unix domain sockets and D-bus' (Wikipedia - systemd). So, like every problem, there are pros and cons to both solutions. However,
with the evolution of computing in mind, parallelization and systemd seem to be the future.

Comments
--------
